
This is the playground for my AI research

Basic premise: All information can be encoded, at least implicitly, as an arrangement of symbols.
Computer use a set of one's and zero's to store information at the lowest level, but it is most useful to view
the information stored on a computer as a STRING. A string is simply an arrangement of 'characters' from a beginning to
end of an undefined length. Since strings have an indefinite number of configurations, they
can hold an indefinite amount of information, and therefor can have an indefinably variable meaning.

The goal here is to understand how to create a program that given information and time can build a system of strings
and methods that will allow it to understand and respond to stimuli given to it in a proactive manner.
I intend to prove that complex systems capable of understanding and manipulating other complex systems can be
created on any machine that can produce 'strings' and 'methods'. I also intend to provide a set of virtual tools and
concepts needed to build and understand such a system, and of course, to create such a system myself.

This project is in all a work of science, a work of engineering, a work of art, and a work of philosophy.
This may be one of the only things that can be all of these. I expect no less than that this idea, whether realized by
myself or by someone else, will shake the world when realised. I must admit that such a though is one of the main
ideas driving me to create this work. The very idea of it -that something so complex and dynamic can be created with
the most ridged of tools- fascinates me and I can't help but finding the answer to this question. This may be my own
version of Pandora's box, and it is by my curiosity that I have found out how to open it, but this idea makes me even
more driven to get it open. To leave it unopened would leave me with a idea unresolved, and a truth -for this would
only be a reveling of truth- lain dormant left to be discovered some other time.

These are the ideas that contextualise the building of this project. I just want to spend a little more time to explain
my choice of programming language and title for the project. I originally wanted to do this project in Java. Java is
a good language, especially for staying organized and understanding the importance data has in the code, but it lacked
the flexibility needed to do this project well. The main reason why I chose Java first was because I knew it. That's
the language I learned in school, and so it made sense to start with what I knew. But as I thought about it more, I
realized that python was the more logical choice. The twin project to "Tom Riddle", one I'm working on with a good
friend of mine, is to 3-D print a small bi-pedal robot, dubbed "Andrew", using a raspberry pi. Since we are using
python for that project, it makes sense to use it here as well. It's also helpful that I don't know python very very
well. If I knew it too well, I'd have to break my understanding to introduce new concepts into the code. However, since
I don't know the language very well yet, I can grow both my understanding of the language and my understanding of the
concepts together as I work on it. As for the name, "Tom Riddle": it refers to Harry Potter book two, when Harry finds
the book that responded to his writing with it's own text ink and introduced itself as "Tom Riddle". A book is a place
for storing strings of information, and that book produced from those strings something more. Now that I have all this
extra time from the COVID-19 quarantine, I have time to work on this. This is the beginning.

Clayton Smith - 3/14/2020